>> Sarah Drasner: Okay.
So some rules that you can follow.
Again, you don't have to listen to me.
You don't have to follow these.
But if you're looking for rules to follow,
that kind of do well for you,
these are good ones.
You pair topography.
You don't just use one font for
the entire site.
It's nice to use a couple
of things together.
Just like a color, right?
You might use like a blue but
you probably want an accent.
So when you're pairing using one
display and one sans serif or
using one serif or in one sans serif.
Kind of finding things that are a little
bit opposite from each other works with
typography too.
Not more than three.
Don't use more than three for
a number of reasons.
First of all, it makes your
design look like a ransom note.
[LAUGH] Second of all, it actually
is really costly performance-wise.
Fonts can really weigh down your sight.
It's up there with loading
a lot of scripts because for
every character you're loading a number
of glyphs that are like SVGs and and
things like that like it has draw
all those lines onto the screen.
So don't load up your site
with too many of them.
Not more than three specially in
the beginning, just try for two.
Unless you're using some sort of
accent somewhere or something.
Don't pick types that are too
similar to each other.
You might think these look kind
of like each other, they match,
that's not a good thing actually in
font pairing and I'll show you why.
This is actually animated, I will show
you that part later when we get to
the prototyping section, but I carefully
chose those two fonts because they
are very different from each other, right?
The body is like a sans serif, that's
very, very different from this kind of
display serif that has these kind of
curvy edges and they work well together.
You can even see how you can use the sans
serif in two different ways, I used it
as some body and then also with the small
caps version in some small areas.
So even if it's just those
two fonts you can change up
the way that you use them in the letter
spacing to change the way that it works.
You can also see some elements of
the complimentary colors thing here too.
So Google Fonts has this
nice pairing thing.
You can kind of test it
out first on their site.
So if you go to the specimen you can see.
So these are these two fonts put together.
So we've got Playfair display and
then Josefin Sans and I can use that or
flip them around or anything.
I think this was supposed to be the
flipped around and I didn't do that right.
Here's an example of doing it wrong,
Leto is really good for body text because
it's kind of a little bit boring,
like not super boring but pretty boring.
And Oswald is this kind of condensed
font that's a little bit harder to read,
it's really good for titles but
if you look at, if you use it,
if you don't use it as a display, you can
see how that would be really illegible.
Whereas if I switch them that's nice,
the Oswald is bigger and
bolder so it works really well for
something like a title.
And Leto is a little bit boring so we've
got it in a body text, which is a good
thing for a body text, you don't want
to much going on in a body text, right?
Leto and Open Sans, this is bad,
they're too similar.
They almost look the same.
It's kinda like when you meet somebody's
sibling and they look a lot like them, but
just a little different.
And you're like,
it's like you took your face and
messed it up a little,
[LAUGH] like, not exactly right.
So they're almost the same, but
just slightly messed up a little bit.
Your eye kind of knows that
they're a little bit different.
So it just ends up feeling not cohesive.
If you don't want to pair things
yourself because you're not good at that
king of thing or your not interested in
that kind of thing, Font Joy is pretty
awesome cuz it allows you to make all
these different font pairings, so it kind
of uses machine learning to figure out
different font pairings that will work.
And just like the coolers generator,
you can just keep going and
hitting the space bar until
you find stuff you like.
Still has that lock option too.
If you find a body copy you really like
and you wanna change the other two out,
you can keep going out that way,
super nice.